---
aliases:
  - HyperText Transfer Protocol
---
HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is a direct derivation of the [[TCP|TCP/IP]] protocol, widely used in modern web applications, greatly superceded by [[#HTTPS]]
# How it works
A TCP/IP packet is modified in HTTP so that it works properly with the protocol. This modified packet is split into two objects: a [[#Request Object]] and [[#Response Object]]. HTTP works using a Request-Response Communication Model, the details of which are below:
## Request
A request is a well-structured message generated by the client to communicate with the server. The server would take this as input for processing.
### Sending the Request
The structure of which follows the [[Lecture 2 - TELE13167#TCP/IP|TCP/IP]] layering model. A simple example structure of such a message is presented below:
1. [[URI]] (Uniform Resource Identifier): This is used to identify the resource, notated using `/resource`. The server will use the code in the resource to process the request
2. HTTP Methods: the 6 methods being GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc. This method specifies to the server what actions should be taken.
3. Data: The request might carry some underlying data. This data is called *request parameters* (!).

> [!note] Parameter v. Attribute 
> Fundamentally speaking, a parameter and an attribute are the same. A Parameter is a variable included in the Request. An Attribute is the data communicated between the Server to Client.
> 
> *A Parameter can be a primitive type. But all Attributes are Object types.*

An even more simplified version of this is as such. Assuming you're looking for a red, women's shirt at Uniqlo:
1. URI: Name of the store that has the shirt you're looking for, in this case: `Uniqlo`
2. HTTP Methods: What you want the store to do with said shirt, in this case: `GET` the shirt
3. Data/Request Params: What other descriptors you can use to specify the shirt, in this case: `color=red, gender=f`

*A more detailed look at this is availableat [[URL]], [[URI]], and [[HTTP]]*
### Receiving and Analysing
The Server will now receive the Request. It will then begin to analyse this Request to see if the requested resource is available. If yes, great! If not, BOOM, error 404 not found (haha full circle).

If the resource is indeed available, the Server will begin Request Mapping, where it uses the URI to find and map said resource into code, then it processes that request, and generates a [[#Response]].
## Response
A response is a message generated by the server and is used to communicate with the client. The client would take this as an input and process it.
# HTTPS
A modern, secure version of HTTP.